Create "update python kata" faq (#11)
codewars/content-issues: update-python-kata/README.md

# FAQ: Update Python kata

## What is the problem with old Python kata?

> The problem described here is caused by the fact that test suites of old kata do not conform to the form expected by Codewars code runner and produce test output in a format not conforming to the expected one. Main reason for that is that calls to assertions (`assert_equals`, `expect`, etc.) are not placed inside of an `@it` block, but in a scope of a `@describe` block or just in the toplevl scope of tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The problem described here is caused by the fact that test suites of old kata do not conform to the form expected by Codewars code runner and produce test output in a format not conforming to the expected one. The main reason for that is that calls to assertions (`assert_equals`, `expect`, etc.) are not placed inside of an `@it` block, but in a scope of a `@describe` block or just in the top-level scope of tests.
```

> ## Why eveything was OK until now, and now the problem suddenly popped up?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why was everything OK until now, and now the problem suddenly popped up?
```

> ## Why was everything OK until now, and now the problem suddenly popped up?

Reviewer 2: Just to be extra clear, I'm not planning to introduce breaking changes to the Python test framework anytime soon. So, it won't prevent adding new Python versions. I added the list to wiki because @Chrono79 had asked.

The main reason to update _for users_ is to improve the test output. Tests written with top-level assertions tend to lack structure and that results in poor output. Also, depending on how the test is written it can accidentally cause **deep** test result because the old format does not add `<COMPLETEDIN:>` automatically.

```text
test-1
  passed
  test-2
    passed
    test-3
      passed
      ... 100s of these
```

Making tests consistent is huge for maintainers. It'll also allow removing various hacks as you wrote from the runner like you wrote.
When updating, it should also follow the current best practices and import the solution explicitly because that's another hack done by the runner, and it can change the line numbers in errors.

---

I honestly don't like maintaining our own test framework (Qualified uses `unittest`), but Codewars currently assumes a single test framework per language for kata. I'd like to add support for more test frameworks in the future, but I haven't had the time to look into how much effort is required.

Updating to the new format should make future migration easier because it somewhat has a structure resembling tests. It'll also allow the test framework to be assertion-based.

Author: Main idea behind the FAQ is that some people after seeing the list rushed to work on it, and this in turn made some authors totally defensive and throwing "stfu it works" back. I want to explain to such people why the actions are needed, but maybe it's kata maintainers who should be held back?

Maybe you just think the faq is not needed, that's ok, im fine with that. But scrolling through today's dashboard shows some could use it, just the question is who: overeager maintainers, or oversensitive authors?

Author: Ąbout improving test output: I think that getting rid of "test output entry per assertion" and emitting one green/red line per test case would make a huge difference here :)

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I saw some comments by authors, and I'd like them to understand why as well.

I get that they're tired of updates or changes. But things change. I'm doing my best to minimize the effort required by them, but it's impossible to avoid them all.

Some authors translated to many languages themselves, so obviously they'll get notified about the necessary updates more often. They shouldn't have any reasons to complain especially if others are helping, and I'd like to know if there's any valid reasons to complain.

I don't know why, but some authors are just sensitive to the "Issue" label. "Suggestion" is enough to get access, so use that? "Issue" will be better when it must be updated as soon as possible.

Reviewer 2: Maybe also clarify that the community will help when posting "Suggestion" comment and also thank them when it's resolved.

Reviewer 2: > I think that getting rid of "test output entry per assertion" and emitting one green/red line per test case would make a huge difference here :)

That requires the test framework to be assertion-based which in turn requires all kata to use `@test.it`.

Author: You think it's ok now? would you like to have some part modified in some particular way?

Reviewer 2: Maybe it's better to have a general FAQ for maintenance and some guide for users who are helping to resolve the problem.

I basically want

- the authors/translator to understand the reasons to update their stuff in general, that they don't need to do them all by themselves, and how to cooperate (fix or at least not get in the way)
- the maintainers to understand how to communicate with the authors effectively

Reasons behind specific change and what needs to be changed can be documented separately. Maybe that can contain more info like severity or what can happen if it's not done (e.g., I might unpublish a beta kata that's not updated in a certain time frame, so we can move on).

> Because future compatibility and maintenance. Python is one of the oldest supported languages on Codewars and it drags behind a large bag of compatibility hacks and workarounds. Tests output is handled in the runner by mechanism which is not related to any programming language, and workarounds needed to make Python tests to work affect the maintainability of the runner overall. Tests output for majority of languages is well defined and structured, except a few which require a large set of workarounds, including Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of future compatibility and maintenance. Python is one of the oldest supported languages on Codewars and it drags behind a large bag of compatibility hacks and workarounds. Tests output is handled in the runner by a mechanism that is not related to any programming language, and workarounds needed to make Python tests work affect the maintainability of the runner overall. Test output for the majority of languages is well defined and structured, except a few which require a large set of workarounds, including Python.
```

> Because of future compatibility and maintenance. Python is one of the oldest supported languages on Codewars and it drags behind a large bag of compatibility hacks and workarounds. Tests output is handled in the runner by a mechanism that is not related to any programming language, and workarounds needed to make Python tests work affect the maintainability of the runner overall. Test output for the majority of languages is well defined and structured, except a few which require a large set of workarounds, including Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of future compatibility and maintenance. Python is one of the oldest supported languages on Codewars and it drags behind a large bag of compatibility hacks and workarounds. The test output is handled in the runner by a mechanism that is not related to any programming language, and workarounds needed to make Python tests work affect the maintainability of the runner overall. Test output for the majority of languages is well defined and structured, except a few which require a large set of workarounds, including Python.
```

> Fixing tests will allow for cleaning up the code of the runner and will make it easier to devlop it, provide new features, and introduce new languages and language versions in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixing tests will allow for cleaning up the code of the runner and will make it easier to develop it, provide new features, and introduce new languages and language versions in the future.
```

## My kata work, do they have to be updated?

> They should. Until they are, "old" format of tests output has to be supported, impeding updates to Python versions or test frameworks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They should. Until they are, the "old" format of tests output has to be supported, impeding updates to Python versions or test frameworks.
```

> They should. Until they are, the "old" format of tests output has to be supported, impeding updates to Python versions or test frameworks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They should. Until they are, the "old" format of the test output has to be supported, impeding updates to Python versions or test frameworks.
```

## Do I have to update my kata by myself?

> No. It would be nice if Python authors and translators took responsibility of fixing kata and translations they created, but they are not forced to. However, autors should allow kata to get fixed by someone else. There's a group of users willing to fix affected kata, and they use available means to track them and update them. If you do not want to update kata on your own, let them do their work. Do not mark their issues as resolved if they are not, and do not obstruct their work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No. It would be nice if Python authors and translators took the responsibility for fixing kata and translations they created, but they are not forced to. However, authors should allow kata to get fixed by someone else. There's a group of users willing to fix affected kata, and they use available means to track them and update them. If you do not want to update kata on your own, let them do their work. Do not mark their issues as resolved if they are not, and do not obstruct their work.
```

## Will my kata stop working if they are not updated?

> No. Codewars staff explicitly takes care to not leave kata broken when updating the code runner. If your kata would not work without being fixed, it will simply prevent the update or increase the efforts needed to roll one out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No. The Codewars staff explicitly take care to not leave kata broken when updating the code runner. If your kata would not work without being fixed, it will simply prevent the update or increase the efforts needed to roll one out.
```

## How can I update old kata?

There's a [reference of the new Python testing framework](https://docs.codewars.com/languages/python/codewars-test/#python-codewars-test-framework) and [tutorial on creating Python kata](https://docs.codewars.com/languages/python/authoring/#testing-framework) which contains some explanations and examples. We hope these will be helpful.

## I cannot update my kata, but I want to. What should I do?

> You can just leave it, and someone will evntually handle it. You can also create an issue on [content issues board](https://github.com/codewars/content-issues/issues) so it would be hopefully processed sooner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can just leave it, and someone will eventually handle it. You can also create an issue on [content issues board](https://github.com/codewars/content-issues/issues) so it would be hopefully processed sooner.
```

# FAQ: Update Python kata

## What is the problem with old Python kata?

> The problem described here is caused by the fact that test suites of old kata do not conform to the form expected by Codewars code runner and produce test output in a format not conforming to the expected one. The main reason for that is that calls to assertions (`assert_equals`, `expect`, etc.) are not placed inside of an `@it` block, but in a scope of a `@describe` block or just in the top-level scope of tests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The problem described here is caused by the fact that test suites of old kata do not conform to the form expected by Codewars' code runner and produce test output in a format not conforming to the expected one. The main reason is that calls to assertions (`assert_equals`, `expect`, etc.) are not placed inside of an `@it` block, but in a scope of a `@describe` block or just in the top-level scope of tests.
```

> Additionally, missing imports for test framework and solution modules make some additional preprocessing necessary and potentially mess up line numbers in error messages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, missing imports for the test framework and solution modules require additional preprocessing which potentially messes up line numbers in error messages.
```

> ## Why was everything OK until now, and now the problem suddenly popped up?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Why did everything seem okay until now?
```

> Because of future compatibility and maintenance. Python is one of the oldest supported languages on Codewars and it drags behind a large bag of compatibility hacks and workarounds. The test output is handled in the runner by a mechanism that is not related to any programming language, and workarounds needed to make Python tests work affect the maintainability of the runner overall. Test output for the majority of languages is well defined and structured, except a few which require a large set of workarounds, including Python.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because of future compatibility and maintenance. Python is one of the oldest supported languages on Codewars and it drags behind a large bag of compatibility hacks and workarounds. The test output is handled in the runner by a mechanism that is not related to any programming language, and workarounds needed to make Python tests work affect the maintainability of the runner overall. The test output format for the majority of languages is well defined and structured, except for a few which require a large set of workarounds, including Python.
```

> Fixing tests will allow for cleaning up the code of the runner and will make it easier to develop it, provide new features, and introduce new languages and language versions in the future.

Reviewer 2: "introduce new languages" is not true. Python's maintainability doesn't affect other languages.

When I rewrote the runner, I made it so that each language and its test frameworks works like an add-on. So, the complexity of each language is isolated within itself.

Reviewer 2: The only thing that keeping the old way clearly affects is the test framework. And the improved structure can improve the test output for the solvers.

I feel like the severity is misunderstood, so I'll clarify. From the runner's point of view, it's honestly not a significant maintenance cost. It's just mildly annoying. I created the list because it was requested, and it doesn't mean it should be prioritized.

I'd like to eventually add an option to use a different test framework, and this update _might_ make the migration easier, and it'll also allow our test framework to switch to use assertions.

Author: > I feel like the severity is misunderstood, so I'll clarify. From the runner's point of view, it's honestly not a significant maintenance cost. It's just mildly annoying. I created the list because it was requested, and it doesn't mean it should be prioritized.

I think it's just that after publishing the list, cw members rushed to fix kata, what in turn triggered some authors, what in turn motivated me to create the faq trying to lower the potential temperature. I think we just got a couple of parties here who acted before they thought :)

I also think that general explanation would be better, and maybe addressing this particular event in such way is not necessary. Maybe let's just see how things are going, and I will try about something more generic and put in some part of docs on kata maintenance.

I am going to withdraw this PR and https://github.com/codewars/blog/issues/25 and think of something more general.

> Additionally, from the user perspective, improperly structured tests tend to result in poor output and are prone to buggy display in test output panel. Updating the kata can potentially fix erlated problems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, from the user's perspective, improperly structured tests tend to result in poor output and are prone to buggy display in the test output panel. Updating the kata can potentially fix related problems.
```

## My kata work, do they have to be updated?

They should be. Until they are, the "old" format of the test output has to be supported, impeding updates to Python versions or test frameworks.

## Do I have to update my kata by myself?

No. It would be nice if Python authors and translators took the responsibility for fixing kata and translations they created, but they are not forced to. However, authors should allow kata to get fixed by someone else. There's a group of users willing to fix affected kata, and they use available means to track them and update them. If you do not want to update kata on your own, let them do their work. Do not mark their issues as resolved if they are not, and do not obstruct their work.

## Will my kata stop working if they are not updated?

> No. The Codewars staff explicitly take care to not leave kata broken when updating the code runner. When any change is going to be introduced, it will be done in a backwrds compatible way. However, if your kata would not work without being fixed, it will simply postpone the update or increase the efforts needed to roll one out.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
No. The Codewars staff explicitly take care to not leave kata broken when updating the code runner. When any change is going to be introduced, it will be done in a backwards compatible manner. However, if your kata would not work without being fixed, it will simply postpone the update or increase the efforts needed to roll one out.
```

## How do I update old kata?

Basically you need to do two things:
 - make sure that all assertions are called inside of a function decorated with `@it`,

>  - add missing imports for `solution`, `codewars_test`, and `preloaded` modules if necessary, to the full tet suite and sample tests (and `preloaded` to example solution, if necessary).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- add missing imports for `solution`, `codewars_test`, and `preloaded` modules if necessary, to the full test suite and sample tests (and `preloaded` to the example solution, if necessary).
```

There's a [reference of the new Python testing framework](https://docs.codewars.com/languages/python/codewars-test/#python-codewars-test-framework) and [tutorial on creating Python kata](https://docs.codewars.com/languages/python/authoring/#testing-framework) which contains some explanations and examples. We hope these will be helpful.

> It would be great if some other, existing issues were also addressed, in the one go.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It would be great if some other existing issues were also addressed in one go.
```

> If you write a post in kata discussion to get attention of its author or to signal the neccessity of update, consider using `suggestion` label instead of `issue`. After the kata is updated, it would be nice to thank the author or mainainer for handling it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you write a post in the kata discourse to get the author's attention or to signal the necessity of the update, consider labelling it as a "Suggestion" instead of an "Issue". After the kata is updated, it would be nice to thank the author or maintainer for handling it.
```

## I cannot update my kata, but I want to. What should I do?

> You can just leave it, and someone will eventually handle it. You can also create an issue on [content issues board](https://github.com/codewars/content-issues/issues) so it would be hopefully processed sooner.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can just leave it, and someone will eventually handle it. You can also create an issue on the [content issues board](https://github.com/codewars/content-issues/issues) so it would hopefully be processed sooner.
```
